In this video,
we're going to add validation to our checkout form.
So before we submit the form to the back end,
let's perform some validation.
So we'll check for required fields.
We'll also make sure we have the minimum length
on certain fields and so on.
So Angular has a set of built in validation rules
that we can make use of.
So there's the required validation,
must be a non empty value.
Min, max, must be a number, greater than
equal to value for min.
Max, less than equal to a value.
There's also min length and max length,
basically checking the length of a string, accordingly.
We can also apply a regular expression pattern
and we can also make use of the email format.
And there's some other validation rules,
and you can make use of the link here on the slide
to get the details on those other validations.
And there's some additional validation features available.
We can define custom validators,
make use of Cross-field validation
and also use asynchronous validators.
And if you'd like to see code examples of this,
you can make use of the Angular documentation
for form validation.
For our checkout form validation.
These are our requirements from the boss.
He wants to make sure that all fields are required.
And also the email address has the proper email format.
And then for the credit card field,
only numbers are allowed, 16 digits.
And for the CVC number only numbers are allowed
and only three digits.
Alrighty, so here's our development process.
So the first step is specifying the validation rules
for the form controls.
Then we define the getter methods
to access the form controls.
Next, we update the HTML template
to display the error messages.
And then finally we add the event handler to check
the validation status when the submit button is clicked.
Alrighty, so starting with step one
of specifying the validation rules for form controls,
recall then a form fill is represented by
the form control object.
So we create the form control
and pass in initial value and validators.
So here's the basic syntax.
New form control, initial value and validators.
So as an example, new form control,
we pass an initial value of an empty string.
And then we pass in the validators
and we pass in an array of validators here.
So if you only had one validator,
you simply pass in a single item itself.
If you have multiple, you make use of an array.
So in this example here,
we're saying at this given field is required
and then the minimum lamp is two.
All right, so let's pull this together with an example
with our checkout form.
So we have our checkout form group.
We have this customer form builder group
and then we make use of use of first name,
new form control, the empty string.
And then we give our validators.
Validators that required
and also validators that min length of two.
So that's for the first name control.
And then we do the same thing here for last name.
So validators that required and min length of two.
For email address, we'll change things up slightly here.
So we have the validators that required.
However, we'll make use of this validate as a pattern.
So we'll pass any regular expression
to check on the email format.
So this expression here will work for an example,
like, you know, anil@gmail.com.
So now you're probably wondering here,
why aren't we using English built in validators that email?
Hmm, well validators that email
only checks for some texts at more texts or whatever.
So based on this, the following is valid email format.
So anil@luv2code or anil@gmail,
these are valid emails based on validators that email.
Okay, but that's too lenient.
That's not really what we want
because this doesn't really check for the domain name format
like anil@luv2code.com or anil@gmail.com.
So as a result, we use a regular expression
with the validators that pattern.
So that's why I'm using the pattern approach
on the previous slide,
because validators that email is too weak, too lenient.
And the validators that pattern
gives me more control over that format.
Now, one final thing I want to mention here
is that validators on email and validates that pattern,
it only checks the format of the email address.
It does not verify if the email address is real.
Okay, so this validator, it doesn't go online
to the internet and check to make sure
this is a real email address or whatever.
It's simply checking the format of that email address.